README.md, before:

## Install

```
git clone https://github.com/WebOfTrustInfo/btcr-did-tools-js.git
npm install
```

## Resolve a BTCR DID

```
resolveFromTxref("did:btcr:xkyt-fzgq-qq87-xnhn").then(ddo => {
  console.log(JSON.stringify(ddo, null, 4));
}, error => {
  console.error(error)
});
```

## Create BTCR DID

This is a prototype-only script to create BTCR DIDs.


### Preparation

We recommend starting in testnet mode. You will need testnet addresses for the input address and the change address.

If you are new to this, please start with the instructions in "Getting started with Bitcoin and testnet", at the end

### Ensure your private key WIF is available as an environment variable

```
export WIF=<privateKeyWif>
```

### Create BTCR DID with DDO/1 ref

```
node createBtcrDidCmd.js -i <inputAddress> -c <changeAddress> -d <link-to-ddo.jsonld>

```

### Create BTCR DID without DDO/1 ref

```
node createBtcrDidCmd.js -i <inputAddress> -c <changeAddress>

```

### Output

The output indicates the (to-be-confirmed) txid. You need to wait for confirmations until the txref is known.

You can check the transaction status at a site like [https://live.blockcypher.com/btc-testnet/](https://live.blockcypher.com/btc-testnet/)

```
transaction details:{
  "status" : "success",
  "data" : {
    "network" : "BTCTEST",
    "txid" : "67c0ee676221d9e0e08b98a55a8bf8add9cba854f13dda393e38ffa1b982b833"
  }
}

```

### Usage

The default node is testnet; call `--help` for more options

```
node createBtcrDid.js --help
```

## Browserify this library

Run the following command if you make changes to this library

```
npm run build
```

That creates a browserified version, called `btcrDidUtils.js`, which you should copy into the BTCR playground (overwrite the existing one).

## Utilities

This library exposes a variety of utilities. Some examples are below

### Get hex-encoded public key from txref

```
node utilCmd.js -n <mainnet|testnet> -t <txref>

```

### Get hex-encoded public key from wif

Assuming `process.env.WIF` contains the WIF

```
node utilCmd.js -n <mainnet|testnet>

```

### Using signerScript.js

Install [https://pypi.org/project/nodeenv/](https://pypi.org/project/nodeenv/)
in order to use a proper local node version inside repo directory
avoiding pollution of system wide node dependencies:

```
$ nodeenv --node 10.15.1 venv
$ source venv/bin/activate
(venv) $ export WIF=<valid_wif_key>
(venv) $ npm install
(venv) $ node signerScript.js
```

### Getting started with Bitcoin and testnet

#### How to generate testnet addresses
If you don't have a testnet address yet, and don't know how to create one, you can start with this client-side address generator: [https://www.bitaddress.org/?testnet=true](https://www.bitaddress.org/?testnet=true).

As this is a client-side address generator, and will be passing private keys, go ahead and disconnect your internet connection. Even though this is testnet mode, it's a good practice to start following.

Once you've disconnected from the internet and generated a testnet address, record the Bitcoin address (what you can share with the public) and the Private Key (always keep this private). The private key is in Wallet Import Format (WIF).

![](img/bitaddress.png)


#### How to get testnet funds

Lastly, you'll need some funds in your input (funding) address before creating the Bitcoin testnet transaction in the following steps.

To get some testnet funds, search for a testnet faucet and send to your input address.

Be sure to hold onto your private keys. Even in testnet mode, you'll want to send your testnet coins back to the faucet provider when you are finished. This tool only uses a small amount of money, and many testnet faucets will send you much more than you need.

Commit message:

Add caution note, fix key management file

README.md, after:

## Install

```
git clone https://github.com/WebOfTrustInfo/btcr-did-tools-js.git
npm install
```

## Resolve a BTCR DID

```
resolveFromTxref("did:btcr:xkyt-fzgq-qq87-xnhn").then(ddo => {
  console.log(JSON.stringify(ddo, null, 4));
}, error => {
  console.error(error)
});
```

## Create BTCR DID

This is a prototype-only script to create BTCR DIDs.


### Preparation

We recommend starting in testnet mode. You will need testnet addresses for the input address and the change address.

If you are new to this, please start with the instructions in "Getting started with Bitcoin and testnet", at the end

### Ensure your private key WIF is available as an environment variable

```
export WIF=<privateKeyWif>
```

### Create BTCR DID with DDO/1 ref

```
node createBtcrDidCmd.js -i <inputAddress> -c <changeAddress> -d <link-to-ddo.jsonld>

```

### Create BTCR DID without DDO/1 ref

```
node createBtcrDidCmd.js -i <inputAddress> -c <changeAddress>

```

### Output

The output indicates the (to-be-confirmed) txid. You need to wait for confirmations until the txref is known.

You can check the transaction status at a site like [https://live.blockcypher.com/btc-testnet/](https://live.blockcypher.com/btc-testnet/)

```
transaction details:{
  "status" : "success",
  "data" : {
    "network" : "BTCTEST",
    "txid" : "67c0ee676221d9e0e08b98a55a8bf8add9cba854f13dda393e38ffa1b982b833"
  }
}

```

### Usage

The default node is testnet; call `--help` for more options

```
node createBtcrDid.js --help
```

## Browserify this library

Run the following command if you make changes to this library

```
npm run build
```

That creates a browserified version, called `btcrDidUtils.js`, which you should copy into the BTCR playground (overwrite the existing one).

## Utilities

This library exposes a variety of utilities. Some examples are below

### Get hex-encoded public key from txref

```
node utilCmd.js -n <mainnet|testnet> -t <txref>

```

### Get hex-encoded public key from wif

Assuming `process.env.WIF` contains the WIF

```
node utilCmd.js -n <mainnet|testnet>

```

### Using signerScript.js

Install [https://pypi.org/project/nodeenv/](https://pypi.org/project/nodeenv/)
in order to use a proper local node version inside repo directory
avoiding pollution of system wide node dependencies:

```
$ nodeenv --node 10.15.1 venv
$ source venv/bin/activate
(venv) $ export WIF=<valid_wif_key>
(venv) $ npm install
```

The script only needs WIF environment variable the first time it runs.
From that point, it keeps generating new WIFs as private keys for change
destinations storing them in keys.json at repo base directory.
Take into account that in case file writing operation fails or the file
gets corrupted, the UTXO corresponding to current WIF will be locked forever.
So use only on testnet (harcoded anyway) and with addresses with low balances.

```
(venv) $ node signerScript.js
```

### Getting started with Bitcoin and testnet

#### How to generate testnet addresses
If you don't have a testnet address yet, and don't know how to create one, you can start with this client-side address generator: [https://www.bitaddress.org/?testnet=true](https://www.bitaddress.org/?testnet=true).

As this is a client-side address generator, and will be passing private keys, go ahead and disconnect your internet connection. Even though this is testnet mode, it's a good practice to start following.

Once you've disconnected from the internet and generated a testnet address, record the Bitcoin address (what you can share with the public) and the Private Key (always keep this private). The private key is in Wallet Import Format (WIF).

![](img/bitaddress.png)


#### How to get testnet funds

Lastly, you'll need some funds in your input (funding) address before creating the Bitcoin testnet transaction in the following steps.

To get some testnet funds, search for a testnet faucet and send to your input address.

Be sure to hold onto your private keys. Even in testnet mode, you'll want to send your testnet coins back to the faucet provider when you are finished. This tool only uses a small amount of money, and many testnet faucets will send you much more than you need.
